getLogger(__name__)


Basic configuration (part 1)
As we mentioned before, the basic logging configuration is done using the basicConfig method. Calling the basicConfig method (without specifying any arguments) creates a StreamHandler object that processes the logs and then displays them in the console.

The StreamHandler object is created by the default Formatter object responsible for the log format. As a reminder, the default format consists of the level name, logger name, and defined message. Finally the newly created handler is added to the root logger. Later you'll learn how to create your own handler and formatter.

In the previous examples, we called the basicConfig method without any arguments. Using the basicConfig, method you can change the logging level (in the same way as using the setLevel method) and even the location of the logs. Take a look at the example in the editor.

Result in prod.log file:

CRITICAL:root:Your CRITICAL message

In the example, the basicConfig method takes three arguments. The first one is the logging level equal to CRITICAL, which means that only messages with this level will be processed.

Passing a filename to the second argument creates a FileHandler object (instead of a StreamHandler object). As you’ve probably noticed, the logs no longer appear in the console. After setting the filename argument, all logs will be directed to the specified file.

In addition, passing the last filemode argument with the value 'a' (this is the default mode) means that new logs will be appended to this file. If you'd like to change this mode, you can use other modes that are analogous to those used in the built-in open function.

These aren't all the arguments that the basicConfig method can take. Are you ready for another dose of knowledge? Let's move on!

NOTE: ThebasicConfig method changes the configuration of the root logger and its children who don't have their own handler defined.


Basic configuration (part 2)
The basicConfig method presented earlier can also be used to change the default log formatting. This is done using the format argument, which can be defined using any characters or attributes of the LogRecord object. Let's explain it with the example in the editor.

Result in the prod.log file:

root:CRITICAL:2019-10-10 17:16:46,293:Your CRITICAL message

The format we define is created by combining the attributes of the LogRecord object separated by a colon. The LogRecord object is automatically created by the logger during logging. It contains many attributes, such as the name of the logger, the logging level, or even the line number in which the logging method is called. A full list of all available attributes can be found here [https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html#logrecord-attributes].

In our example, we use the following attributes:

%(name)s – this pattern will be replaced by the name of the logger that calls the logging method. In our case, it's the root logger;

%(levelname)s – this pattern will be replaced with the set login level. In our case, this is the CRITICAL level;

%(asctime)s – this pattern will be replaced with a human-readable date format that indicates when the LogRecord object was created. The decimal value is expressed in milliseconds;

%(message)s – this pattern will be replaced by the defined message. In our case, it's 'Your CRITICAL message'.

In general, the scheme for using the LogRecord object argument in the format argument looks like this:

(LOG_RECORD_ATTRIBUTE_NAME)s

Your first handler
Each logger can save logs in different locations as well as in different formats. To do this, you must define your own handler and formatter.

In most cases, you'll want to save your logs to a file. The logging module has the FileHandler class, which facilitates this task. When creating a FileHandler object, you must pass a filename where the logs will be saved.

Additionally, you can pass a file mode with the mode argument, e.g., mode='a'. In the next step, you should set the logging level that will be processed by the handler. By default, the newly created handler is set to the NOTSET level. You can change this using the setLevel method. In the example in the editor, we've set the CRITICAL level.

Finally, you need to add the created handler to your logger using the addHandler method.

Result in the prod.log file:

Your CRITICAL message

If you check the prod.log file, you'll see that only the message is saved there. Do you know what we forgot? Your handler hasn't created a formatter. You'll learn how to do this in a moment.

NOTE: Each logger can have several handlers added. One handler can save logs to a file, while another can send them to an external service. In order to process messages with a level lower than WARNING by added handlers, it's necessary to set this level threshold in the root logger.

Your first formatter
Congratulations! You’ve just created your first handler. Only the formatter is missing, but don't worry. It's just two steps. Take a look at the example in the editor.

Result in the prod.log file:

__main__:CRITICAL:2019-10-10 20:40:05,119:Your CRITICAL message

In the first step you need to create a Formatter object by passing the format you've defined to its constructor. In the example, we use the format defined in one of the previous examples.

The next step is to set the formatter in the handler object. This is done using the setFormatter method. After doing this, you can analyze your logs in the prod.log file.

